# plotHeatClust
Plots a heat map including dendrograms generated by hierarchical clustering for the data given via the argument "input.path" and writes it to a pdf file in the same location.

## Usage
Execute the following code in the console of RStudio:

plotHeatClust(input.path = "path/to/your/data-file.txt")

Note: plotHeatClust("path/to/your/data-file.txt") has the same effect.

## Input data
Your data must be formatted in a way that plotHeatClust can interpret it. Please make sure that the input file and the specified path to it meet the following requirements:
- The input file is a tab-separated txt-file.
- Rows represent quantified proteins, genes, etc.
- Columns represent different samples.
- The first row provides column names.
- The first column is named "ID" and it provides the respective IDs of the quantified proteins, genes, etc. E.g., UniProt-IDs.
- The names of the other columns provide sample names. Moreover, samples should be named according to the following pattern: "SampleGroup_NumberWithinGroup". E.g., if there are two clinical group, "Type 2 diabetes" and "Controls", the respective sample names could be: T2D_1, T2D_2, T2D_3, ...., C_1, C_2, C_3, ....
- In all columns, except the first, there are numbers representing the abundances of the quantified protein, genes, etc.
- The file "hcc.txt" in the subfolder ["data"](../data) of icbToolbox, which provides example data, is formatted correctly, so you can use it as a guide to format your own data.
- A constructed example to illustrate the basic principle of formatting your data correctly:
  |ID|T2D_1|T2D_2|T2D_3|(...)|C_1|C_2|C_3|(...)|
  |---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
  |Q9UJ68|100832.0193|56606.85451|56228.84989|(...)|51280.72095|109974.8873|109827.6151|(...)|
  |P84103|80058.02278|1182460.475|63352.35847|(...)|93033.20982|40069.04917|67999.75178|(...)|
  |(...)|(...)|(...)|(...)|(...)|(...)|(...)|(...)|(...)|
  |P16219|1331780.428|66780.58805|1133041.174|(...)|459913.9889|1855951.858|1571948.068|(...)|

## Further documentation
Please execute "help(plotHeatClust)" in the console of RStudio for further documentation.
